they only give right answers, or they only try to give you answers based on cross-reference. But in many cases, whenever we talk to our customers, they are like financial services, they probably do some trading, or they probably do something like energy consumption analytics, or they probably do something like for logistics, they probably want to analyze what happened over the last one minute, whether there's package missing, all these kind of things. they actually do not really care, they were not asked about like, okay, check me, tell me, okay, what happened to this, to this, or the package, right? Or tell me what happened to this transaction, right? They were not asked about that. They actually only care about, okay, what they really want to do, if that's what they actually want to process the events, the events one by one, they do not really want to just call a function, like a process event, and tell the agent to give me an answer. what they really want to do is like an event driven experience like every single event that I was in I can trigger something right but the problem here is that so I mean every time if you come if you have the event therefore every single event if you call the run error if you call the open API you find that it's too expensive and it's too slow So what people really do is that they actually still use the stream processing system, or still use some data processing system, like no matter whether it's Spark, no matter whether it's like Flink, or no matter whether it's like Redis Wave, to process the data before sending the data, before sending the true data into the OpenAI, I'll call it, only vote the OpenAI API, right? So here's a . So, for example, let's say that's what we have, let's say that's what we do with the, let's say the email, right? Or probably GitHub with, no, yeah, GitHub, Webhook, right? There are a lot of people who really want to do it, they will not do things like, okay, for every single event, I call it API. What they really want to do is actually have a building, like, for example, whereabouts they actually invoked the LAM. So we found that this pattern is really popular in most of the logistic companies, energy consumption companies. All the companies go about, they have a lot of events. Or even companies like Uber. they actually really want to understand what their user behavior look like, right? But they were not really asked the LLM that, okay, whether these transactions are fraud. They actually were still used as dataways to do the processing, no matter whether it's ready-play, no matter whether it's Spark, to do the processing before invoking the system, before invoking the OpenAI API, right? So yeah, this is the workflow. We call it essentially more like a proactive agent. That is, for every single time, the agent behavior or the bot behavior or the bot answer are always triggered by the events. But before triggering events, we actually have the processing system to pre-process the data. So let's talk about the use case that is for stock trading. For stock trading, typically people want to probably join some data, right? Well, let's say the currency conversion along with the transaction data. They actually want to join these two tables, the general fee and the 2% of them. And let's say that if we want to have the AI agent to tell us whether there are some fraud transactions, it doesn't really make any sense for people to send a transaction directly to the open AI API and to check whether it's fraud. So what people really want to do is they have to write a simple query to process the data. And the interesting part is that we found that many non-technical persons do not really know how to write SQL. So we found that, essentially, they actually use OpenAI on some other, how do you say, where I am, to do this testing SQL translations. So another one very practical use case in so-called proactivation is that So in the recommendation system, no matter if it's on Amazon, where you log into Amazon, you will find that there are a lot of ads. They have ads because they actually track your behavior. So essentially, you find that on one of the three websites, actually using the ARAM to make recommendations. What they do is that's where they collect the data. Let's say that's where you are looking for hacker news. I know that's where hackers determine if they have ads. If they want to promote you with some ads recommendations. What they're going to do is that's where they actually will track your behavior. But in the past, what people really do is that they actually have certain kind of algorithm to figure out what their behavior looks like, right? What kind of ads I want to promote to you. But these days, what people does, we find that what people really does is they will not set all these kind of rules. Instead, they will actually ask the AI to find a strategy and to find the best way to promote their ads. So yeah, that's a model of the time representation. And the other thing is about .