So a good idea to start my thought blog is actually on the revenue models of OpenAI. So it's following the YouTube video from Alex Kowalski, the host. So they are talking about OpenAI's ads business, right? And I think they made a comment that apparently there's a point from OpenAI's president or chair or whoever called Brad Taylor And he said that basically, OpenAI is not getting a fair share of the economic value it creates. So let's say you made a huge discovery, a scientific discovery from where it's a checklist assistant and you file a patent and then you know, it makes you, I don't know, millions of dollars. But you are probably just paying OpenAI a $20 a month subscription. And which, you know, it's what he's saying, like OpenAI is not getting a fair share of their economic value creation. And hence, they need to do something else like building advertisements. I mean advertising is a very big business and I completely agree with a co-host's idea that Sam Altman is not marketing this very well. I think their piece they put out to announce us is It's actually very uninspired. They are too defensive. I mean, rolling out ads is not bad, right? It's if you do believe or at least you need to pretend to believe that your ads are going to be good, you are going to be recommending. um people um you know services that are very relevant to them i mean people do need recommendations like i also try to pay for restaurants or what i can do um all the time um and if you give me good honest recommendations i wouldn't think it's a it's a depletion of um customer value i would actually appreciate it um so um so yeah um but also um at the same time um no i mean anyways um you know i'm losing my train of thought but um what i'm trying to say is um like maybe the way or if you genuinely believe in agi or at least some superior kind of intelligence or if you believe that your model is actually smart enough to assist people on very economically viable tasks then Maybe the thing to do, the new business model is actually do it yourself. It's like what DeepSeek is doing, right? I mean, DeepSeek is doing this by accident, but it's sort of like, I mean, if we just take a cut through time and we look at now, we don't look at the origin, how they got to this point, but we just, you know, look at what they're doing now and it makes complete sense. What they're doing is like they have a massively profitable like money printing business which is quantitative trading and they are probably using their models or their capabilities or their specialized models whatever it is to do quantum trading and they're making money which is funding the business so maybe the way to do it to not get the unfair share of the economic value you can potentially create is to actually get into the business yourself. You know, if you say that the model is going to assist traders in trading, or if you believe that your model is going to help with drug development, or help people with digital advertising, or help filmmakers with creating films, then go and do it yourself. And if it's successful, you get 100% of the economic benefits. And you don't need to do everything, right? And I think this may be even helpful to the to the business side, the adoption of models, because at the moment we are struggling with form factor. It's like, you know, people need inspiration on how to use these tools and how to incorporate them into their workflows properly, how to get their workforce to use it. And maybe it's a very smart idea that you do it yourself and maybe in the meantime you also build up know-how and build up capabilities and build up products for the industry. It's like cloud. They are building cloud code because they want to automate or they want AI to do all the work that the company's employees are doing. there comes cloud code and maybe the best way to do it is you know you build a product with assist of ai of your own model instead of just telling people that it's you know capable of like helping everyone with everything and then like while you are doing it you can actually try to make 100% of the economic value you create. And, you know, according to your other, Brad Taylor, that's a much better way to do it. I mean, people are making money from AI. We know of marketing teams or people are just like spending social medias with AI created content and they are definitely making money from it. And I mean, they don't even need to get into 100 different sectors, right? I mean, trading is definitely one of them. They make money very fast. And I don't know, like social media, marketing, making films, like whatever. I mean, there must be a list inside OpenAI and Cloud and Gemini that's, you know, where are the areas that their models are most capable of, and maybe they should just go in and do it. So maybe for me, I think this is a very good thought process is that to create the product development tool, maybe we should just go in and create a product and use AI in the same time and we can build two things at once.