与以往的委托人不同,派先生并没有在信中提出具体诉求,而是邀请波罗在周四晚上九点半到自己家中详谈,并且特意在信中强调,波罗赴约时一定要带上这封委托信。 到了周四晚上九点半,波罗带着自己好友黑斯廷斯上校准时赴约,派先生的豪宅就建在他的馅饼工厂对面,负责接待的管家表示,派先生只想见波罗一个人,于是上校只好留在楼下等待。 走进楼上的会客室,波罗顿觉气氛有些古怪,派先生将一盏台灯直直照在了波罗的眼上,灯光晃得大侦探睁不开眼睛,搞得跟审犯人似的,而派先生自己则坐在阴影里。 波罗只能依稀看出对方是一个板头卷发,戴着高度近视眼镜的大叔。 派先生告诉波罗,自己最近总是在重复做一个噩梦,他梦见每天中午十二点二十八分的时候,自己就会不受控制地从办公桌的抽屉里拿出一把左轮手枪, 然后走到窗前开枪自杀。 暴力的场景, is his office, which is the room next door. This repeated nightmare has made Mr. Pai's heart throb. To this end, he also specially visited a psychiatrist. The psychiatrist thought that Mr. Pai might have a suicidal tendency, so he would have such a strange dream. But Mr. Pai felt that he was rich and happy, so he had no reason to not open it. He suspected that someone used hypnosis to direct himself into the thought of suicide. So this time, he went to the police station to see Bolo Bangbang in order to find out who the criminal was. Bolo heard Mr. Pai's statement and was stunned. He asked the other party if there was a suspect. Mr. Pai shook his head. This scared Bolo out. This kind of stupid case is simply ridiculous. He thought for a while and suggested that he should go to the next room. After all, that's where the nightmare happened. But Mr. Pai refused Bolo's request. He also questioned his ability to solve the case and asked Bolo to return the letter. Bolo is also the first time to see such a strange letter. He turned his face when he heard it. He had no choice but to take out the letter from his pocket. Mr. Pai only saw the letter. I don't know. I don't know. The number you have dialed is not available at the moment. Before this, Bolo decided to do an experiment first. He brought the crowd to Mr. Pan's office. When it was 12.28, he told them to look outside the window. The crowd saw the smoke from the factory not far away through the window. At this time, a gunshot was heard from the next door, and the crowd was shocked. Everyone turned their heads and realized that it was the black girl in the room next door who was shooting through the window to the sky. Bolo explained that the shot was only a demonstration of the murderer's method. Mr. Pan didn't go to the factory, so he didn't know if the employee had a gunshot or not. Hey, there's a gunshot in the room next door. You don't know. Oh It's the secretary of Mr. Pai, who was in the room next door at the time. And the one who found out was also a secretary. Only he had time to put the police in front of the dead body, to frame himself as a murderer. Even the so-called nightmare is a lie made up by the secretary. On Thursday night, the person that Polo saw was not Mr. Pai himself, but a fake secretary. So the other party has been hiding in the shadows. He also deliberately used a lamp to light up Polo's eyes, so that Polo can't see his face. The big-winded commission was also sent to Polo in the name of Mr. Pai, the fake secretary. It may be to avoid external news. He also deliberately asked Polo for a letter of apology. But Polo replied to the letter of apology wrongly, and the secretary did not see it. That's because his identity is normal. In order to pretend to be Mr. Pai, he had to wear a pair of high-resolution eyeglasses. As a result, he naturally could not see what was in front of him. The secretary refused to say anything, and let Polo go to the room next door to check it out. I'm afraid that the real Mr. Pai was in the office next door at the time. As soon as Polo went in, the secretary's plan to kill Polo was completely exposed. Polo continued to dare to speculate that the murder motive of the secretary was probably the beautiful wife of Mr. Pai, and the murder motive of Mr. Pai, and the murder motive of Mr. Pai. She has inherited 200,000 silver coins. The two are in a relationship. That's why Mrs. Pai cooperated with the secretary to pretend that her husband had a nightmare about suicide. The secretary worked so hard to create a murder case exactly like the one in the dream. Just to bring the ordinary murder case up to the level of mental control and suspense, and let the victim become more and more confused, she started to investigate. For this reason, the secretary even risked using Detective Bolo to make him prepare for the case. As long as Bolo can't solve the mystery of the dream, the police can only treat it as a suicide case. Unfortunately, she overestimated herself and underestimated Bolo. After listening to Bolo's thorough reasoning, the guilty secretary wanted to run away, but was caught on the spot. As a help to Mrs. Pai, she also quickly confessed her crime to the secretary. After the crime was over, Bolo went back to the detective's office and brought a gift to his secretary. Looking at the heavy package, the secretary was a little excited. She guessed that this must be her long-awaited typewriter. Because the typewriters that are used now often go wrong, she has been begging Bolo to buy a new one. But every time, she was pulled out of the house, and Bolo refused. 加密书小姐万分期待度过程中,不冷打开了帮补,拿出了一座时钟座。 We shall have no more leaning dangerously out of the window to tell the time, yes? The victim's wife, Ms. Dolly, also found her best friend, village detective, Ms. Marple, to help with the case. The victim is a young and beautiful girl, with a golden hair, with a bright lipstick and nail polish, wearing a bright long dress with a black and white color. It seems that she just participated in a party or a dance party before her death. The results of the forensic examination show that the death time was between 10 to 10.30 p.m. last night. The cause of death was the death of a person who was injected with a drug. It is not possible to confirm the identity of the victim at the moment. There are traces of someone knocking on the window of the storage room. Considering that the victim's family does not know the victim at all, and there is no motive for the murder, Ms. Marple and the village chief suspect that the murderer deliberately left the place after the murder. They want to frame the victim and the couple. It is possible that the couple, the husband and the wife, can do this kind of thing. The only person who has anything to do with Shangqiao is a neighbor named Pi Ge. Pi Ge is a movie producer. He once said that he wanted to show Shangqiao a little bit of color. And Pi Ge has just made a relationship with a golden-haired woman. Well, thank you, Ms. Marple. He often brought his girlfriend to the town to participate in the meeting. The victim may be the blonde girl of Pigeon. The police chief and Marburg rushed to Pigeon's house. In the end, they saw that Pigeon's blonde girlfriend was still alive. It seems that the victim is someone else. The case returned to the original point. When it was too late, they had to confirm the identity of the victim in advance. The police chief decided to investigate the missing people. The latest police record shows that a famous general, Xiao Xi, has disappeared. Xiao Xi's appearance is similar to the victim's. But when the other person disappeared, he was wearing a uniform and dark hair. He is clearly different from the victim's hair color. He should not be a victim of the library. Just before the case was closed, someone reported that the blonde girl of Pigeon's hotel in the town had just disappeared. The personal characteristics of Pigeon and the victim are very consistent. The police immediately notified Pigeon's cousin, Nana, to come and meet the victim. Nana is also a blonde girl of the hotel. After confirming, the victim is indeed her cousin, Pigeon. When Pigeon's body appeared in the library of the Yaseh Shangqiao, Nana was very surprised because she and her cousin did not know the Shangqiao family. According to Nana's memory, she was in the library of the Yaseh Shangqiao in a month. The victim, who was not in the library, was a very lucky person. Although he was not found guilty, he was still a victim of the crimson bond. This is the most interesting story in the history of the history of the Yaseh Shangqiao. The death of the coroner in the middle of the pretty palace in the village of Pigeonины. The police said that the crime was notaponized because it was a picture taken on a blackboard. However, in the case of the fifth crime, it is said that the thief committed a crime. It is known that the victim was a man of the family who was a blackjack. The name of this person is Yaseh Shangqiao. The police in the corner are the victims of the crimson bond. Yaseh Shangqiao was found guilty of murder by both men and women. So he found his cousin, Meili, to dance with him instead of himself. He was only responsible for playing the piano with the guests. The last time he saw his cousin was at 10.30 p.m. Meili was dancing with a male guest. At 0 o'clock in the night, Meili's male partner came to find Nana, claiming that Meili had suddenly disappeared. At that time, Nana was playing the piano with the guests. Since Meili's dance performance was about to start, and it was not like her intention, Nana could only leave the guest alone and go to the dressing room to find her cousin. But the other party was not in the room. On the bed, there was Meili's dance group. In the closet, there was a black and white bright long dress. Nana thought Meili was going out to date a man. So she was very angry. In the end, she held her feet tight and danced instead of Meili and her male partner. Until this morning, Nana still thought Meili was going out to date a man. So she didn't call the police. The one who called the police was an old teacher named Henry. He was a regular guest at the hotel and a VIP client of Meili. The lady on the roof, Dori, called Henry's teacher very often. But she noticed that Henry was getting married. When Meili was drunk, Meili was sitting on the sofa to watch the weather. The other person was watching the sky. I was watching the sky for a long time. When I turned around, the other person was watching the same thing. The other person was laughing and I was the only one who watched the sky. So that's when I realized that I was wrong. But I'm afraid that I'm not the only one who is the only one who is not. I want to be the only one who is the only one who is not. But Meili's father was the only one who is the only one who is the only one who is not. So I hope I can show him my face. I don't know. I don't know. The four of them have been together for the past four days and night. Although it was more than ten o'clock, Sister-in-law Li had a letter to write and left for a while. But she had already returned to the desk before 10.30. At that time, Meili was still dancing with the guests on the stage. So whether it was Mark or Sister-in-law Li, there was not enough time to do the case. If it wasn't for money to kill someone, could it be a murder? Marble suddenly remembered that Meili's cousin Nana had said before that she suspected that on the night of the crime, her cousin had run to think of a man. If that's the case, who could this man be? According to Nana,