Obrin Martell poisoned Tywin Lannister. Would Tywin have died anyway, even if Tyrion hadn't shocked him? Did the Martells actually get the vengeance they desired on House Lannister? Hi everyone, this is Robert. Welcome to Indie Geek. On this channel we cover A Song of Ice and Fire in nerdy detail, as well as The Lord of the Rings, The Witcher, and more. Welcome. So, did Obrin Martell poison Tywin? Well, let's start with the obvious question of why many people think that Tywin had already been poisoned when Tyrion shot him with that crossbow. Because that's the idea we are working with here. Tyrion may have killed Tywin, but it didn't actually make any difference. Tywin would have died anyway in a few days. And with apologies if you've just had your dinner, our first clue comes with where Tyrion found Tywin. He was on the Privy, apparently struggling to find himself. He had been sat there for some time, it seems. At least he had enough time for Tyrion to creep into his bedchamber, talk to Shae, strangle her to death, hunt for a weapon, load a crossbow, then make his own way to the Privy. And when Tyrion finally shot Tywin, we're told that Tywin's bowels opened and there was a sudden stench, a stink that filled the room. Fair enough, you might think. Human bodies can do that when life ends. But it shows that although Tywin had been sat there a while, his bowels were still full. So there was definitely at least... ...some kind of constipation going on, and the toxic smell is mentioned a couple of times. Later, after Tywin's body had been embalmed and placed on display in the Great Sept, it gets even more grim. We read this. The king's hand was rotting visibly. His face had taken on a greenish tinge and his eyes were deeply sunken, two black pits. Fissures had opened in his cheeks and a foul white fluid was seeping through the joints of his splendid golden crimson heart. While the king was still in his sleep, he was still in the dark. He was still half-asleep. The king had a very large gun on his hand, and he was very afraid of the gun. He thought that a gun might be a good idea. The king had the gun, but he knew that it would be too much for him to hold on to. He was afraid that he would be killed if he held on to the gun. But he had the gun, and he was very afraid that the gun would be gone, and he could hardly hold it. And he had the gun. But he was afraid that the gun would be gone, and he could hardly hold it. And there was no way that he could make a decision. It was simply too late for him. And if he had any idea what he was doing, he would have to go to the army. And that's it. Well, Tommen later was physically sick from it. It certainly seems as if there was something toxic at work on that body. And as it happens, we're told a few chapters earlier about a poison that would do exactly what we see happen to Tywin. Widow's blood. Grand Maester Pycelle mentions it during Tyrion's trial for Joffrey's murder, which is completely unrelated to this murder, in case you were wondering. I did a separate video on that. Widow's blood, this one is called, he said. For the colour. A cruel potion. It shuts down a man's bladder and bowels until he drowns in his own poisons. So, we have a poison that shuts down someone's bladder and bowels until they drown in their own internal toxins. And Tywin, whose bladder and bowels clearly stopped working properly, and whose body after death seemed to be consumed by its own toxins. Oh, and that bottle of Widow's blood that Pycelle talked about? It was stolen. Mysteriously, from Pycelle's stores. Yes, the notion that Tywin was poisoned seems pretty strong. But why blame Oberyn? There were a lot of people who might want Tywin dead. Well, we should probably start by being clear that Oberyn really, really wanted Tywin dead. In fact, that was the reason he was there in King's Landing in the first place. To understand why, let's go back to before all the upheaval and devastation.