a leading researcher from either industry or academia to come speak about some state-of-the-art topic they're working on in Transformers. So we have an exciting lineup of speakers prepared for you guys this quarter. And so this first lecture will be delivered by us where we'll sort of go through the basics of Transformers. And then we sort of divided this lecture a bit differently from the previous lectures in that we kind of have a section on pre-training and data strategies, and then a section focused more on post-training, which has become a very popular topic these days. We'll also touch briefly on some applications of Transformers and some remaining sort of weaknesses or challenges that we should hopefully address to be able to further improve the state of AI and our machine learning models. So yeah. Yeah, so we'll start with some instructor introductions, so we have a very good team of co-instructors. So my name is Steven, I'm a current third year CS PhD student, previously did my undergrad at Waterloo in Canada. I've done some research in industry as well, at Amazon and Video, and in general my research sort of focuses, hovers around natural language processing, so machine learning for language and text. I'm looking at things like can we improve the controllability and reasoning models of large language models, and more recently, cognitive science and psychology inspired work, especially bringing the gap, the data gap, and the learning efficiencies between machine learning models and how the humans learn, how human children learn, and how our brains are able to learn so efficiently. I've also done some work with multimodal, as well as computer vision, so things like diffusion models and image generation. And just for fun, I also run the piano club here with Peran. And we have an upcoming concert on April 11th. Hi everyone, I'm Curran, a second year electrical engineering Ph.D. student. I did my undergrad at Cal Poly San Luis Obispo, after which I was a research scientist here, not doing my Ph.D. I'm a little bit more on the medical imaging and computer vision side. So a lot of my current work is at the intersection of computer vision and neuroscience, working with things like fMRI and ultrasound. And I currently work at the STAI lab, a new lab under Dr. Assans Tadeli. Hi everyone, I'm Chelsea. I'm a first-year master's student in symbolic systems And my general research interests are in multi-agentic frameworks, self-improving AI agents, and overall just kind of improving the interpretability and explainability of models. So previously, I studied applied math and neuroscience, and I did a bunch of interdisciplinary research in computer vision, robotics, cognitive science, things of that sort. And currently, I'm working part-time at a VC firm, and over the summer, I'll be interning at a conversational AI startup as a machine learning engineer. So I'm very interested in exploring the startup scene here at Stanford, so feel free to reach out. Hi everyone, I'm Jenny, I'm a current student majoring in as well as a sociology coach here at Stanford. My background is primarily in technology ethics and policies. So if you have any questions or want to talk about that, I'd love to have a conversation. In the past, I've worked doing product at and also research in the tech ethics and policy space. And this summer, I'll be working at Daydream, which is an AI fashion tech startup in New York. So, Div was unable to join us today, but he's working on his new agent startup called AGI Inc. Currently on leave from a CS PhD here. He's passionate about robotics, AI agents, and so forth. And later this quarter, he'll likely be giving a lecture, actually, on everything to do with AI agents. So, if you're interested in that, definitely look forward to it. And previously, he's worked at NVIDIA, Google, and so forth. And he's the one who sort of started this class in the first place. Thank you. So I'll go over some of the course logistics. So first announcement is we have a new website up. That's just cs45.stanford.edu. And so all of our updates as well as the speaker lineup will be posted there in the coming weeks. That will also be the link to share our Zoom with people who are not Stanford affiliated or are on the wait list or have not been able to gain admission to the class. So we encourage everyone to share this class with their network and ensure that anyone can access it from Zoom. Lectures are every Tuesday from three to 420 in this building. Attendance.