What expenses do they have? There seem to be very few priests, acolytes, and servants, and I'm sure their temple requires some upkeep, but it isn't exactly gaudy. This is an organization that takes in vastly more wealth than it spends. If they are storing their money with the Iron Bank, it would help explain two mysteries. Why the Iron Bank is so much more powerful than all the other banks combined, and what the Faceless Men do with all their wealth. perhaps they even have some kind of reciprocal agreement wealth management in exchange for the occasional killing of a debtor or rival it sounds pretty basic but it could help explain how the iron bank has been able to dominate the banking sector so thoroughly not only would they have a greater ability to collect on their debts they would be able to literally eliminate the competition like the rogue air bank of lease It's an intriguing theory, which, although it makes a lot of sense, must remain a theory until we get a bit more evidence. Until then, let's limit ourselves to suggesting that one of the many tunnels leading out of the House of Black and White leads to the Iron Bank, where the Faceless Fens store all their wealth. one other tunnel that aya sees with human bones it's a roof supported by columns of skulls it's quite macabre and calls to mind another echo in the story aya's brother brang is also in a cave system with plenty of tunnels beneath a temple of sorts and in which there are lots of bones getting even more macabre. When Arya is finally shown down into that third level, the sectum where only priests are allowed, she finds something else that happens to those dead bodies she had been cleaning and removing the clothes from. She is taken down there just after she's been given her first target for assassination, the insurance salesman. It is extremely deep, far below the canals. It only takes 18 steps to reach the first level down, then another 22 to reach the sub-cellar as the passageways grow narrower and steeper. Arya describes the entrance to this second level like a pand, five passageways extending from the landing, with the heavy locked iron door guarding another staircase. She counts the steps again down to the third level and it's far deeper, 54 this time. at the base of the stairs is another iron door but this one is unlocked as the door opens and the lantern light spreads we get this chilling line A thousand faces were gazing down on her. It frightens her, despite her best efforts to control her fear. She thinks how she had washed and dressed a hundred corpses, how skin is just leather. But afterwards she dreams of the faces, dreams of them watching her, and imagines them whispering dark secrets to each other. And one of those leather skins is placed on her face to give her the disguise and memories of the ugly little girl for whom the chapter is named, and for the face she wears when murdering the insurance man. In this chapter, her final one in Adults with Dragons, it becomes clear that the size of the house in black and white is far beyond what she had imagined, and she had imagined quite a bit. Indeed, the room with the faces on the third floor is not nearly the end. As the kindly man leads her through the room, she sees a row of tunnels leading off into side passages. Another tunnel reveals winding stairs going even further below into the depths. What more secrets might there be even deeper below the temple? What we do know is that the House of Black and White and its catacombs act as a sort of production line to support the work of the Faceless Men. In the main temple, people drink of the water and sleep forever. The priests and acolytes themselves are based on the first floor beneath that and the servants the second. Between them, they strip the body of its clothes, weapons, and any wealth. The clothes and weapons are stored for use as disguises by the Faceless Men. Money and valuables are taken away, perhaps down a tunnel to the Iron Bank. The body then heads even further down, its face carefully preserved using some unknown magic. Putting on the face mask means reliving at least the last moments of that person, a horror Arya experiences. the bones presumably go to that corridor we noticed earlier and the assassins themselves make their way in and out of the complex through still more unknown tunnels and through all this george martin seemingly nudges us to remind us of how many other similar structures there are in this world an overground building of some kind but underneath extensive caverns tunnels and dark secrets we're reminded of the mines and vaults and gold of the iron bank the bones in the tunnels in blood raven's cave system under the weirwood trees the flayed skins hidden in or under the dreadfort winterfell's crypts with its statues that seem alive somehow the list goes on as for the house of black and white what we have seen supports our understanding of how the faceless men work with disguises magical and non-magical it seems obvious now but that moment aya saw all the faces looking down at her confirmed how jackan had so easily changed his mind his face a couple of books previously and we have hints of a connection to the iron bank which would make a lot of sense and a well-oiled system to provide clothing arms money whatever is needed but what further secrets are there why are there all those skulls and bones in that passageway could it be the room where the faces are removed and treated with secret magics how much further down does the complex extend if the room of faces is not the deepest secret what is does one of those passages lead to the iron bank the sea lord's palace other important venues perhaps even outside of the city But as a final thought, what we learn here about the servants of the many-faced God is perhaps reflective of their beliefs. There are many aspects to what they do, though all are connected. this isn't just a temple and they aren't just assassins they are both and more they have a room that literally has many faces they clearly possess great wealth and yet even their secret chambers seem austere there are echoes of similar structures dedicated to the old gods mercantilism and flaying and above it all their temple is as fittingly inscrutable and enigmatic as they are they are no one and everyone and their temple is reminiscent of many others and yet like no other if you'd like to see more videos like this diving into the world of a song of ice and fire there's a playlist appearing now on the left of your screen or to support this channel thank you there's a link to my patreon page on the right of your screen Thanks for watching. That's all for this time. I'll see you again soon. adrian newy's first aston martin is the most eagerly anticipated formula one car of 2026. we had to wait for it too as aston martin became the 10th of the 11 teams to hit the track on the penultimate day of the five-day barcelona test and only in the final hours of that fourth day but when it rolled out of the garage this spectacular car did not disappoint the delay that cost aston martin the majority of available running in the shakedown test is indicative of newy's characteristic desire to push everything to the limit the car being late is concerning and our understanding is that it's overweight but it made a big impression when it finally broke cover driven by lance stroll with team owner lawrence stroll and star driver fernando alonso watching on The black carbon fibre machine is the most extreme 2026 car we've seen yet, and with only Williams to go, it will surely remain that way. Newey only started working for the team last March, but there's no question that Aston Martin's managing technical partner, and now team principal too, has stamped his identity on the AMR26. As our resident ex-F1 technical director Gary Anderson noted, it is a car that pushes to the limits of the regulations. This is the start of a new era for the team. The AMR26 was designed and developed in its state-of-the-art factory opposite the Silverstone circuit, using a cutting-edge new wind tunnel and vast array of tools and equipment that's been added. And it's the first car built in partnership with new engine supplier Honda, with the extra challenge of the team having to make its own gearbox in-house for the first time since 2008, when it ran under the Force Indian name. Ambitions and expectations are sky-high. Ambitions and expectations are sky-high.